h1. Starbug PHP Web Development Framework

Starbug PHP is an open source framework for PHP. Starbug is a fast and exstensible toolkit that employs a loose MVC design pattern. Here are some of the core features provided:

* Flexible routing and content model with built-in CMS
* Simple templating engine (using PHP for templates)
* Code generation made easy, built on the templating system
* Role-based access control (RBAC)
* Database abstraction layer includes schema management and a flexible validation and filtering system
* many command line utilities, and you can easily add your own
* Utilities for data grids, form building, pagination, thumbnailing and more..
* support for modules

h2. Project Info

* *Web*: "StarbugPHP.com":http://starbugphp.com
* *Source*: "github.com/cogentParadigm/Starbug":http://github.com/cogentParadigm/Starbug
* *Author*: "Ali Gangji":http://aligangji.com

h2. Dependencies

You will need the following to use this toolkit:

* "PDO extension for PHP":http://php.net/manual/en/book.pdo.php

Optional dependencies are listed in the links section.

h2. Getting Started

Installing starbug is easy, just follow these simple steps:

# Initialize a new application and change to that directory:<pre><code>git clone git://github.com/cogentParadigm/Starbug.git myapp
cd myapp</code></pre>
# Generate a host file and enter your database and other details:<pre><code>./sb generate host
vi etc/Host.php</code></pre>
# Run setup:<pre><code>./sb setup</code></pre>
# Open up your browser and point it to your installation directory!

h2. Extra Steps

We recommend you take following additional steps:

# Copy the sb command to your path:<pre><code>cp sb /usr/bin/sb</code></pre>
# Copy the bash completion file to take advantage of auto-completion when running sb commands:<pre><code>cp core/lib/bash_completion/sb /etc/bash_completion.d/</code></pre>

h2. Links

Starbug integrates several 3rd party tools you may want to check out:

* "Git":http://www.git-scm.com
* "Dojo":http://www.dojotoolkit.org
* "Blueprint CSS":http://blueprintcss.org
* "TinyMCE":http://www.tinymce.com
* "PHPThumb":http://phpthumb.sourceforge.net
* "Doxygen":http://www.doxygen.org
* "PHPUnit":http://www.phpunit.de/manual/current/en/index.html
* "CodeMirror":http://codemirror.net

h2. License

Starbug PHP is distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public License v3
