h1. Themes reference

* Intro
* Configuration
* Working with Templates
* Deploying to a Production Environment

h2. Intro

Themes in Starbug are kept in app/themes/. At any given time there is one *active* theme and one or more *enabled* themes.

let's look at how themes are structured:

* public/
*        images/
*        stylesheets/
* templates/
* info.json

Only folders named public are directly accesible. All other URLs will be rewritten. Images and stylesheets should be kept in the images and stylesheets folders within public respectively.

The templates folder contains theme templates. Templates are loaded using the render function. see the section on working with templates for more details.

see the next section for details on the info.json file.

h2. Configuration

All configuration for themes are done in these files:

* etc/Etc.php - set the active theme here
* etc/themes.json - set enabled themes here
* app/themes/[theme]/info.json - theme specific options

In the info.json file you can specify some basic information about your theme such as a name and description. Additionally you can specify:

h3. regions

a list of templates to be rendered in order that comprise a page. for example:
<pre><code>regions: ["header", "main", "footer"]</code></pre>
this means that there are 3 regions in the page, and 3 templates that are going to be rendered.

h3. styles

a list of stylesheets to be loaded. In development mode, they will be loaded indivdually. In production mode they will be built into a single stylsheet.
The Blueprint CSS framework stylesheets are automatically loaded to provide some common styles.

h2. Working with Templates

When templates are loaded, the templating engine will search these 3 locations in this order:

* app/templates/
* app/themes/[theme]/templates/
* core/app/templates/

The first matching template that is found will be loaded.

You can load templates using the assign and render functions. To load a template named "article.php" and pass it the variables "title" and "body" you would do this:

<pre><code><?
	assign("title" "My Title");
	assign("body" "My Article");
	render("article");
?></code></pre>

for more information on working with templates see core/global/templates.php

h2. Creating a Theme

Starbug includes 2 themes: starbug-1 and storm. starbug-1 is a fixed-width layout and storm is a flexible-width layout. You can use one of these as a starting point,
and add your theme to etc/themes.json.

Eeach of your themes regions will be rendered in order. Edit the templates to change the markup and put your styles into the stylesheets in the public/stylesheets folder of your theme.
